hello i'm gordon from camera labs give
me a couple of minutes and i'll tell you
all about Sony's latest full-frame
mirrorless camera the a7r Mark 2 here it
is the a7r Mark 2 by name obviously it's
the successor to the original a 7r and
it bumps the resolution up from 36 to 42
megapixels but in many respects this
camera Sony's fifth full-frame
mirrorless is the kind of combination of
the three existing product lines by
using a new back illuminated CMOS sensor
it can offer very high sensitivities so
in that respect it could be seen as
almost a successor to the a7 s and with
decent autofocus and continuous shooting
performance maybe it's also an a7
successor now this camera does inherit
much of the body design and built-in
stabilization of the a7 mark 2 though
there's a couple of really interesting
things about it that I want to talk
about briefly in this video first of all
anybody who is familiar with the
original a7 are well known it have quite
a clunky shutter and it did suffer from
some vibration issues Sony's resolved
that let's have a listen to the new
shutter sound that is much quieter than
before it uses an electronic first
person shutter and if I switch it to
continuous shooting this camera is
shooting 42 megapixel images at 5 frames
per second and that is also supporting
continuous autofocus so that is actually
quite high performance for a camera of
this resolution and that neatly takes me
on to autofocus because this camera also
has the highest number of embedded phase
detect AF points of any mirrorless
camera no fewer than 399 of them
covering almost 45% of the frame now
what makes this particularly exciting is
how well it works with older lenses for
me while Sony is increasing the number
of native f e mount lenses I was very
curious to see how this camera would
perform with older a mount lenses and
even adapted lenses for example from
Canon well I can tell you that I have
tried this camera the a7r Mark 2 with a
variety of a mount lenses using the
older or rather simpler l EI EI 3
adapter now that's just a basically a
hole in
middle of a lens extension tube so
there's none of the SLT mirror
technology in there and I found that the
auto focusing speed was actually pretty
respectable it wasn't quite as quick as
using the more sophisticated
la ea4 adapter but remember that that
adapter only had 15 AF points covering a
smaller frame this camera will use all
399 of its face detect AF points over a
larger frame and it'll support face
detection as well so in some respects
it's actually performing better but I
wanted to take it further so I removed
the lens and tried it with the meta
bones adapter with a variety of Canon
lenses now here I have the EF 24
millimeter USM lens nice and the
particularly demanding ones but it's one
that I had to hand and if I just try the
camera here you can hear it hopefully
hear that double beep confirmation sound
is actually refocusing very very quickly
in fact I found with this lens and this
adapter the a7r Mark 2 was focusing
pretty much at the same speed as it
would with an a mount lens via the lae
a3 adapter that's pretty amazing today
to do that with Canon lenses now of
course there are some caveats it won't
work with all Canon lenses the older
ones may not autofocus at all but it
certainly worked with this one and it
worked very well and I should also add
it worked with continuous autofocus so
think about that again fast and
confident phase detect a continuous
autofocus with Canon lenses via an
adapter I mean even on some carrom
bodies the live view performance isn't
that spectacular so this makes the a7r
Mark 2 a very very tempting camera just
going over those initial specifications
again 42 megapixel resolution 399
embedded SATA AF points 5 frames per
second continuous shooting and of course
a video that can be recorded internally
just one note about that 4k video
there's actually two coverage options
one uses the full frame coverage and one
uses a crop super 35 coverage now the
interesting thing about that one super
35 is a 1.5 times field reduction so
it's like shooting aps-c now
unfortunately the number of pixels that
you've got left there don't divide
evenly into a 4k resolution sony's had
to reduce them by 1.8 times however it
was at great pains to point out that it
reckoned it did it very very well and
that there was no muah ray or any
scaling artifacts to worry about
personally speaking I'm not a filmmaker
so I'm not that bothered about having
precise super 35 coverage I'd sooner
have slightly broader coverage with an
exact two times reduction for smoother
scaling but the proof as they say of the
pudding is in the eating so we'll have
to wait and see what footage from final
production samples looks like this is a
pre-production model so unfortunately I
cannot share any images or video from it
but I did want to mention to you sooner
rather than later what that auto
focusing performance was like especially
with adapted a mount lenses and canon EF
via the metabones adapter and the short
answer is very very good so this looks
like a really exciting camera I can't
wait to test a final production sample
as always if you want to see my latest
results and sample images as I do begin
to test one of these check out my full
report at camera labs comm I hope you
enjoyed that and as always let me know
what you think of this camera in the
comments
Oh quick PS you thought I'd forgotten
this has one of the largest electronic
viewfinder magnifications around noir
point 7 8 x makes it for actually bigger
than that on the Fujifilm xt one and it
does indeed look fabulous when you're
composing with the electronic viewfinder
and once again it does have the built-in
5 axis stabilization of the a7 mark -
and that works with any lens you attach
so all in all a pretty impressive camera
I would just remembered one other thing
about it I can't wait to tell you more
it will do 720p a 120 frames per second
for a four times slowdown on a 30 P time
line so all in all an extremely
impressive model
Sony's raise the bar from what we can
expect from a mirrorless camera and even
though it still doesn't
have a touchscreen it has pretty much
everything else